Let's pick our modeling effort backup with the feature computation.
First, we want to compute our RR interval time series,
which is just the difference between successive QRS complex locations.
Then the summary statistic features are fairly simple with NumPy.
To get the number of outliers,
we first want to find which
our intervals are greater than 1.2 times the average interval.
This will give us a Boolean array,
and if we count the number of true elements we'll get the number of interval outliers.
Then to do the root mean square,
we take the square root,
the mean, and the square of the difference between our intervals.
Then the last feature is the percent of
interval differences that's greater than 50 milliseconds.
So because these are the intervals in samples,
we have to divide by the sampling rate to convert into seconds and
then we see which ones are greater than 0.05 seconds.
This is also a Boolean array,
if we take the mean, we will get the percent of true values.
Next, we need to re-sample
our integral time series that occurs on a regular as time grid.
We can do that by starting at the timestamp of the first heartbeats and going
to the timestamp of the second last heartbeats in increments of a quarter second,
so that we now have a four hertz time grid.
The reason we started the first heartbeat and go to the second,
the last one is because we are assuming that the timestamp of
each RR interval is the timestamp of the first heartbeat in that interval.
But you could easily take the second heartbeat to be
the timestamp by changing your indices like that.
Then we want to interpolate time-series onto this grid.
The first argument is the grid we want,
the second one is the one we have,
and again, we can use
the second heartbeat in the interval to be the timestamp by changing the index like that.
Then we pass in the RR interval time series itself.
It's important to remember that these are all sample locations,
and because we want to convert them to seconds,
we have to divide by the sampling rate.
Next, we compute the Fourier transform of
our now regularized RR interval time series
and then we can compute our frequency domain features.
So like always, we select the band that we're interested
in and then we find the largest magnitude component in that band.
The next feature is the frequency at which this component actually
occurs and then we do this again for the band between 0.15 and 0.4 hertz.
Once we have our features implemented,
we can feature as each EKG record and then
create our feature matrix as well as the labels vector.
I'll leave the actual modeling to you in the next exercise.
Feel free to use whatever kind of classifier you want.
You can even do the same random forest model that
we did in the activity classifier lesson,
and then evaluate the performance of your classifier using cross-validation.